[DOCS] Add search and filtering tutorial/quickstart, edit filtering page (#114353)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/query-dsl/query_filter_context.asciidoc

[discrete]
[[filter-context]]
=== Filter context

> A filter answers the binary question “Does this document match this query clause?”. The anwser is simply "yes" or "no".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A filter answers the binary question “Does this document match this query clause?”. The answer is simply "yes" or "no".
```

Filtering has several benefits:

. *Simple binary logic*: In a filter context, a query clause determines document matches based on a yes/no criterion, without score calculation.
. *Performance*: Because they don't compute relevance scores, filters execute faster than queries.
. *Caching*: {es} automatically caches frequently used filters, speeding up subsequent search performance.
. *Resource efficiency*: Filters consume less CPU resources compared to full-text queries.
. *Query combination*: Filters can be combined with scored queries to refine result sets efficiently.

> Filters are particularly effective for querying structured data and implementing "must have" criteria in complex searches.

Reviewer: It could be useful to define here what we mean by "structured data."

Author: added!

Common filter applications include:

* Date range checks: for example is the `timestamp` field between 2015 and 2016

> * Status checks: for example is the `status` field equals "published"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Status checks: for example is the `status` field equal to "published"
```

> * Status checks: for example is the `status` field equal to "published"

Reviewer: I wonder if people who aren't really familiar with the concept of filters will equate "status checks" with other field data, such as authors' name. We could consider renaming "Status checks" to something else like "Structured data checks" or "Specific field value checks" or something along those lines? WDYT?

Author: sounds good

Filter context applies when a query clause is passed to a `filter` parameter, such as:

* `filter` or `must_not` parameters in <<query-dsl-bool-query,`bool`>>  queries
* `filter` parameter in <<query-dsl-constant-score-query,`constant_score`>> queries

> * <<search-aggregations-bucket-filter-aggregation,`filter`>> aggregations

Author: It might be a bit too much in this 101 searching and filtering intro! This is the first tentative toe in the search paddling pool. 🦶 

Currently I'm thinking the next basics "quickstart"  could be a`semantic_text` quickstart  (maybe ELSER + hybrid via rrf). That would be a toy example, API-only, with no reindexing or anything, just the happiest path — and then link to **Search your data** for the full-blown semantic search examples.

> * <<search-aggregations-bucket-filter-aggregation,`filter`>> aggregations

Author: I think there might be a little too much in this first draft already, let's see how we fell once I've incorporated the first round of feedback.

> * <<search-aggregations-bucket-filter-aggregation,`filter`>> aggregations

Author: @carlosdelest sorry I forgot that I edited this page too, so I glanced over this comment as if it related to the tutorial!

Indeed we should add whatever else is missing from this query_filter_context.asciidoc page too 😄
